{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green61\blue204;\red127\green0\blue85;\red100\green100\blue100;
\red42\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue192;\red106\green62\blue62;\red0\green128\blue128;\red63\green127\blue127;
\red0\green45\blue153;}
{\info
{\author Pedro E. Cunha Brigatto}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16920\viewh10540\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Activity 06: Adding a \'91front\'92 controller to events\

\fs24 \
Pre-req 01: 
\b Activity 05
\b0  completed\
\
1. Create a new package under the base package (example: \cf2 br.com.ufscar.secomp\cf0 ), called \cf2 controllers\cf0 \
2. Create a new class under the package \cf2 br.com.ufscar.secomp.controllers\cf0 , called \cf2 EventController\cf0 , with the following code. Save the work.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf3 package\cf0  br.com.ufscar.secomp.devopsday.controllers;\
\
\cf3 import\cf0  java.util.ArrayList;\
\cf3 import\cf0  java.util.List;\
\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.http.HttpStatus;\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.http.ResponseEntity;\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestBody;\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMethod;\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.ResponseBody;\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;\
\
\cf3 import\cf0  br.com.ufscar.secomp.devopsday.model.Event;\
\cf3 import\cf0  br.com.ufscar.secomp.devopsday.repositories.EventRepository;\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 @RestController\cf0 \
\cf4 @RequestMapping\cf0  (path = \cf5 "/\{user_id\}"\cf0 )\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf3 public\cf0  \cf3 class\cf0  EventController \{\
	\
	\cf4 @Autowired\cf0 \
	\cf3 private\cf0  EventRepository \cf6 eventRepository\cf0 ;\
	\
	\cf4 @RequestMapping\cf0  (path = \cf5 "/event"\cf0 , method = RequestMethod.\cf6 POST\cf0 )\
	\cf4 @ResponseBody\cf0 \
	\cf3 public\cf0  ResponseEntity<Event> saveEvent(\cf4 @RequestBody\cf0  Event \cf7 event\cf0 ) \{\
		Event \cf7 eventSaved\cf0  = \cf6 eventRepository\cf0 .save(\cf7 event\cf0 );\
		\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 new\cf0  ResponseEntity<Event>(\cf7 eventSaved\cf0 , HttpStatus.\cf6 CREATED\cf0 );\
	\}\
	\
	\cf4 @RequestMapping\cf0  (path = \cf5 "/event"\cf0 , method = RequestMethod.\cf6 GET\cf0 )\
	\cf3 public\cf0  ResponseEntity<?> listAllEvents() \{\
		List<Event> \cf7 events\cf0  = \cf3 new\cf0  ArrayList<>();\
		loadEventsIntoList(\cf7 events\cf0 , \cf6 eventRepository\cf0 .findAll());\
		\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 new\cf0  ResponseEntity<>(\cf7 events\cf0 , HttpStatus.\cf6 OK\cf0 );\
	\}\
	\
	\cf3 private\cf0  List<Event> loadEventsIntoList(List<Event> \cf7 listToFill\cf0 , Iterable<Event> \cf7 events\cf0 ) \{\
		\cf3 for\cf0  (Event \cf7 eachEvent\cf0  : \cf7 events\cf0 ) \{\
			\cf7 listToFill\cf0 .add(\cf7 eachEvent\cf0 );\
		\}\
		\cf3 return\cf0  \cf7 listToFill\cf0 ;\
	\}\
\}
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
3. Modify the file 
\b pom.xml
\b0  of the project, adding the following dependency. Save the work.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf0         \cf8 <\cf9 dependency\cf8 >\cf0 \
        	\cf8 <\cf9 groupId\cf8 >\cf0 com.fasterxml.jackson.datatype\cf8 </\cf9 groupId\cf8 >\cf0 \
        	\cf8 <\cf9 artifactId\cf8 >\cf0 \ul \ulc0 jackson\ulnone -\ul datatype\ulnone -jsr310\cf8 </\cf9 artifactId\cf8 >\cf0 \
        	\cf8 \ul \ulc8 <\cf9 \ulc9 version\cf8 \ulc8 >\cf0 \ulc0 2.8.2\cf8 \ulc8 </\cf9 \ulc9 version\cf8 \ulc8 >\cf0 \ulnone \
        \cf8 </\cf9 dependency\cf8 >
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
4. Modify the classes Event, Session and Registration, all from the model, adding the following annotations to all the getter methods of the attributes which type is \cf10 java.time.LocalDateTime\cf0 : \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf0 	\cf4 @DateTimeFormat\cf0  (iso = \cf4 DateTimeFormat\cf0 .ISO.\cf6 DATE_TIME\cf0 )\
	\cf4 @JsonDeserialize\cf0  (using = LocalDateTimeDeserializer.\cf3 class\cf0 )\
	\cf4 @JsonSerialize\cf0  (using = LocalDateTimeSerializer.\cf3 class\cf0 )
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Example (getter of the attribute startingTime, of the class Session): \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf0 	\cf4 @DateTimeFormat\cf0  (iso = \cf4 DateTimeFormat\cf0 .ISO.\cf6 DATE_TIME\cf0 )\
	\cf4 @JsonDeserialize\cf0  (using = LocalDateTimeDeserializer.\cf3 class\cf0 )\
	\cf4 @JsonSerialize\cf0  (using = LocalDateTimeSerializer.\cf3 class\cf0 )\
	\cf3 public\cf0  LocalDateTime getStartingTime() \{\
		\cf3 return\cf0  \cf6 startingTime\cf0 ;\
	\}
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
5. From all the repository interfaces (under the \cf10 package br.ufscar.secomp.devops.repositories\cf0 ), remove all the annotations and keep only the interface. \
\
Example:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf3 package\cf0  br.com.ufscar.secomp.devopsday.repositories;\
\
\cf3 import\cf0  org.springframework.data.repository.PagingAndSortingRepository;\
\
\cf3 import\cf0  br.com.ufscar.secomp.devopsday.model.Attendee;\
\
\cf3 public\cf0  \cf3 interface\cf0  AttendeeRepository \cf3 extends\cf0  PagingAndSortingRepository<Attendee, Long> \{\
	\
	Attendee findDistinctByName (String \cf7 name\cf0 );\
\}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
6. Run the application (select the project under Project Explorer, right click the button and select 
\b Run As
\b0  > 
\b Spring Boot App
\b0 )\
\
7. From the terminal or the browser, test the application by saving an event and listing all events, respectively. \
\
Example using 
\b curl
\b0 : \
\
Posting an event: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf0 curl -i -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/\ul json\ulnone " -d '\{"name":"SECOMP","description":"SECOMP","firstDay":"2016-01-01T10:24","lastDay":"2016-01-01T10:24","sessions":[\{"title":"Spring Data","description":"Spring Data","startingTime":"2016-01-01T10:24","endingTime":"2016-01-01T10:24","speaker":\{"name":"\ul Pedro\ulnone ","miniBio":"\ul Pedro\ulnone  from \ul Avaya\ulnone "\}\}]\}' http://localhost:8080/secomp/event
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Listing all the events: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf0 curl http://localhost:8080/secomp/event
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
}